content/ReactVSNextJS/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "React Vs Next.js: Which one should you use for your next project in 2025?"
description: "React is a JavaScript Library & Next.js is a React Framework"
image: "../../public/Comp3.jpg"
publishedAt: "2025-02-19"
updatedAt: "2025-02-19"
author: "Janki Rawal"
isPublished: true
tags: 
  - Web development
  - ReactJS
  - NextJs
  - SEO Friendly
---
In the ever-eveolving landscape of web development, two names often emerge at the forefront: ReactJS and NextJS. As developers seek to create faster, more efficient and engaging web applications, understanding the naunces and strengths of these tools becomes essential.
ReactJS: The Versatile Front-End Library
ReactJS, created by Facebook, has transformed the way we build user interfaces. It's a powerful library that allows developers to create dynamic, interactive components effortlessly. ReactJS shines in its flexibility, allowing developers to build anything from small single-page applications to complex, large-scale projects. Its component-based architecture promotes reusability and maintainability, making it a go-to choice for many developers. 
> By default, Tailwind removes all of the default browser styling from paragraphs, headings, lists and more. This ends up being really useful for building application UIs because you spend less time undoing user-agent styles, but when you really are just trying to style some content that came from a rich-text editor in a CMS or a markdown file, it can be surprising and unintuitive.

We even included table styles, check it out:

| Wrestler                | Origin       | Finisher           |
| ----------------------- | ------------ | ------------------ |
| Bret "The Hitman" Hart  | Calgary, AB  | Sharpshooter       |
| Stone Cold Steve Austin | Austin, TX   | Stone Cold Stunner |
| Randy Savage            | Sarasota, FL | Elbow Drop         |
| Vader                   | Boulder, CO  | Vader Bomb         |
| Razor Ramon             | Chuluota, FL | Razor's Edge       |


It's important to cover all of these use cases for a few reasons:

1.  We want everything to look good out of the box.
2.  Really just the first reason, that's the whole point of the plugin.
3.  Here's a third pretend reason though a list with three items looks more realistic than a list with two items.

 ### What about nested lists?

 We also need to make sure inline code looks good, like if I wanted to talk about `<span>` elements or tell you the good news about `@tailwindcss/typography`.

### Sometimes I even use `code` in headings

Even though it's probably a bad idea, and historically I've had a hard time making it look good. This _"wrap the code blocks in backticks"_ trick works pretty well though really.

Another thing I've done in the past is put a `code` tag inside of a link, like if I wanted to tell you about the  repository. I don't love that there is an underline below the backticks but it is absolutely not worth the madness it would require to avoid it.

#### We haven't used an `h4` yet

But now we have. Please don't use `h5` or `h6` in your content, Medium only supports two heading levels for a reason, you animals. I honestly considered using a `before` pseudo-element to scream at you if you use an `h5` or `h6`.

We don't style them at all out of the box because `h4` elements are already so small that they are the same size as the body copy. What are we supposed to do with an `h5`, make it _smaller_ than the body copy? No thanks.

### We still need to think about stacked headings though.

``` Html showLineNumbers {1-2,4} /Krishna/ title="index.html" caption="this is the supreme power"
<article className="prose">
<p>Hare Krishna Hare Krishna Krishna Krishna Hare Hare Hare Rama Hare Rama Rama Rama Hare Hare
Krishna is the supreme personality of GodHead and Radha Rani is the Queen of Krishna or heart of Krishna
She is Vrindavaneshwari</p>
</article>
```

Commit message:

Updated the blog and added Profile pic and designation

content/ReactVSNextJS/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "React Vs Next.js: Which one should you use for your next project in 2025?"
description: "React is a JavaScript Library & Next.js is a React Framework"
image: "../../public/Comp3.jpg"
publishedAt: "2025-02-19"
updatedAt: "2025-02-19"
author: "Janki Rawal"
designation: "Software Developer"
isPublished: true
tags: 
  - Web development
  - ReactJS
  - NextJs
  - SEO Friendly
---
### Brief Overview
 JavaScript has become an indispensable part of the modern web development, 
 offering a vast ecosystem of frameworks and libraries. Among the most prominent 
 front-end technologies are React.js and Next.js, both of which play a pivotal role 
 in building dynamic and high-performance web applications. 
 Choosing right framework is a crucial decision that can significantly impact a developer'same
 efficiency, scalability and overall project success. In this blog, we will delve into an in-depth 
 comparison of React.js and Next.js exploring their key differences, strength and ideal use cases. 
 By the end, you'll have a clearer understanding of which technology aligns best with your development goals.


### Introduction: Why This comparison matters
Developers often facing the difficulty of choosing between this most popular frameworks and technologies.


### What is ReactJS?

React.js is a javascript library which is used to build interactive user interface and was developed by FaceBook(Meta now)
It provides tools and structure for your application to make it faster and easier. 
It is mainly used to build single page application and focuses on Client Side Rendering(CSR). 

### What is Single Page Application(SPA) ?
There is a single page is built in the application which rendering different components in the page. 

Real application in real app
UI built in react are NETFLIX, Facebook, aitbnb

In the ever-eveolving landscape of web development, two names often emerge at the forefront: ReactJS and NextJS. As developers seek to create faster, more efficient and engaging web applications, understanding the naunces and strengths of these tools becomes essential.
ReactJS: The Versatile Front-End Library
ReactJS, created by Facebook, has transformed the way we build user interfaces. It's a powerful library that allows developers to create dynamic, interactive components effortlessly. ReactJS shines in its flexibility, allowing developers to build anything from small single-page applications to complex, large-scale projects. Its component-based architecture promotes reusability and maintainability, making it a go-to choice for many developers. 
> By default, Tailwind removes all of the default browser styling from paragraphs, headings, lists and more. This ends up being really useful for building application UIs because you spend less time undoing user-agent styles, but when you really are just trying to style some content that came from a rich-text editor in a CMS or a markdown file, it can be surprising and unintuitive.

We even included table styles, check it out:

| Wrestler                | Origin       | Finisher           |
| ----------------------- | ------------ | ------------------ |
| Bret "The Hitman" Hart  | Calgary, AB  | Sharpshooter       |
| Stone Cold Steve Austin | Austin, TX   | Stone Cold Stunner |
| Randy Savage            | Sarasota, FL | Elbow Drop         |
| Vader                   | Boulder, CO  | Vader Bomb         |
| Razor Ramon             | Chuluota, FL | Razor's Edge       |


It's important to cover all of these use cases for a few reasons:

1.  We want everything to look good out of the box.
2.  Really just the first reason, that's the whole point of the plugin.
3.  Here's a third pretend reason though a list with three items looks more realistic than a list with two items.

 ### What about nested lists?

 We also need to make sure inline code looks good, like if I wanted to talk about `<span>` elements or tell you the good news about `@tailwindcss/typography`.

### Sometimes I even use `code` in headings

Even though it's probably a bad idea, and historically I've had a hard time making it look good. This _"wrap the code blocks in backticks"_ trick works pretty well though really.

Another thing I've done in the past is put a `code` tag inside of a link, like if I wanted to tell you about the  repository. I don't love that there is an underline below the backticks but it is absolutely not worth the madness it would require to avoid it.

#### We haven't used an `h4` yet

But now we have. Please don't use `h5` or `h6` in your content, Medium only supports two heading levels for a reason, you animals. I honestly considered using a `before` pseudo-element to scream at you if you use an `h5` or `h6`.

We don't style them at all out of the box because `h4` elements are already so small that they are the same size as the body copy. What are we supposed to do with an `h5`, make it _smaller_ than the body copy? No thanks.

### We still need to think about stacked headings though.

``` Html showLineNumbers {1-2,4} /Krishna/ title="index.html" caption="this is the supreme power"
<article className="prose">
<p>Hare Krishna Hare Krishna Krishna Krishna Hare Hare Hare Rama Hare Rama Rama Rama Hare Hare
Krishna is the supreme personality of GodHead and Radha Rani is the Queen of Krishna or heart of Krishna
She is Vrindavaneshwari</p>
</article>
```
